[dbm] cross account iam authentication for rds (#25201)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/guide/managed_authentication.md

4. Complete the Agent setup steps for your [RDS][6] or [Aurora][7] instance.

### Enable IAM authentication for the Agent host in the same AWS account as the RDS instance

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "EC2" %}}

> 1. Create an IAM role and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an IAM role and attach the IAM policy created for DB authentication to the role.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "ECS Fargate" %}}

> 1. Create an IAM role and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an IAM role and attach the IAM policy created for DB authentication to the role.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "EKS" %}}

> 1. Create an IAM role and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an IAM role and attach the IAM policy created for DB authentication to the role.
```

    }
  ]
}'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "EKS" %}}

1. Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

```bash
# Create an IAM role for EKS
# Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
# Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>` with the AWS account where the Agent is running
# Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the  IAM role that will be used by the EKS pods where the Agent is running
aws iam create-role --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --assume-role-policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>:role/<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'

# Attach the IAM policy to the IAM role
# Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy from step 2
aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --policy-arn <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>
```

2. Modify the IAM Role for the EKS Service Account where the Agent is running to allow assuming the IAM role created in previous step.

```bash

> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_ECK_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the EKS Service Account IAM role where the Agent is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the EKS Service Account IAM role the Agent is using
```

# Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
# Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account where the RDS instance is located
aws iam update-assume-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE> --policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>:role/<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'
```

3. Create an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster and create a service account for the Agent.

```bash
# Create an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster

> # Replace `<YOUR_ESK_REGION>` and `<YOUR_ESK_CLUSTER>` with the region and name of your ESK cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Replace `<YOUR_EKS_REGION>` and `<YOUR_EKS_CLUSTER>` with the region and name of your EKS cluster
```

$ eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider \

>   --region <YOUR_ESK_REGION> \
>   --cluster <YOUR_ESK_CLUSTER> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --region <YOUR_EKS_REGION> \
  --cluster <YOUR_EKS_CLUSTER> \
```

        enabled: true
```

### Enable IAM authentication for the Agent host in a different AWS account than the RDS instance

**NOTE: Cross-account IAM authentication is supported starting from Agent version 7.57.**

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "EC2" %}}

1. Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

```bash

> # Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>` with the AWS account ID where the Agent is running
> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EC2_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the EC2 instance where the Agent is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam create-role --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --assume-role-policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>:role/<YOUR_AGENT_EC2_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'

> # Attach the IAM policy to the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy from step 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --policy-arn <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>
```

> 2. Modify the IAM role permission policies of the EC2 instance where the Agent is running, to allow assuming the IAM role created in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Modify the IAM role permission policies of the EC2 instance where the Agent is running, to allow assuming the IAM role created in the previous step.
   - Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EC2_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the EC2 instance where the Agent is running
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role created for DB authentication
   - Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located
```

```bash

> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EC2_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the EC2 instance where the Agent is running
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam update-assume-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_AGENT_EC2_ROLE> --policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>:role/<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "ECS Fargate" %}}

> 1. Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located, and attach the IAM policy created for DB authentication to the role using the example below.
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role created for DB authentication
   - Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>` with the AWS account ID where the Agent is running
   - Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_ECS_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the ECS task where the Agent is running
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy created for DB authentication
```

```bash

> # Create an IAM role for ECS task
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>` with the AWS account ID where the Agent is running
> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_ECS_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the ECS task where the Agent is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam create-role --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --assume-role-policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>:role/<YOUR_AGENT_ECS_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'

> # Attach the IAM policy to the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy from step 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --policy-arn <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>
```

> 2. Modify the IAM role permission policies of the ECS task where the Agent is running to allow assuming the IAM role created in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Modify the IAM role permission policies of the ECS task where the Agent is running to allow assuming the IAM role created in the previous step.
   - Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_ECS_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the ECS task where the Agent is running
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
   - Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located
```

```bash

> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_ECS_ROLE>` with the IAM role of the ECS task where the Agent is running
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam update-assume-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_AGENT_ECS_ROLE> --policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>:role/<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "EKS" %}}

> 1. Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located and attach the IAM policy created in step 2 to the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an IAM role in the account where the RDS instance is located, and attach the IAM policy created for DB authentication to the role using the example below.
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
   - Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>` with the AWS account ID where the Agent is running
   - Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the  IAM role to be used by the EKS pods where the Agent is running
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy created for DB authentication
```

```bash

> # Create an IAM role for EKS
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>` with the AWS account ID where the Agent is running
> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the  IAM role that will be used by the EKS pods where the Agent is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam create-role --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --assume-role-policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>:role/<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'

> # Attach the IAM policy to the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy from step 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE> --policy-arn <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>
```

> 2. Modify the IAM role for the EKS Service Account where the Agent is running to allow assuming the IAM role created in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Modify the IAM role for the EKS Service Account where the Agent is running to allow assuming the IAM role created in the previous step.
   - Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the EKS Service Account IAM role the Agent is using
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
   - Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located
```

```bash

> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the EKS Service Account IAM role the Agent is using
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role
> # Replace `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws iam update-assume-role-policy --role-name <YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE> --policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>:role/<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
    }
  ]
}'
```

> 3. Create an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster and create a service account for the Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster and a service account for the Agent using the example below.
   - Replace `<YOUR_EKS_REGION>` and `<YOUR_EKS_CLUSTER>` with the region and name of your EKS cluster
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy created for DB authentication
   - Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_SERVICE_ACCOUNT>` and `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAMESPACE>` with the name and namespace of the service account
   - Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the IAM role to be used by the EKS pods where the Agent is running
```

```bash

> # Create an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster
> # Replace `<YOUR_EKS_REGION>` and `<YOUR_EKS_CLUSTER>` with the region and name of your EKS cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$ eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider \
  --region <YOUR_EKS_REGION> \
  --cluster <YOUR_EKS_CLUSTER> \
  --approve

> # Create a service account
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_POLICY_ARN>` with the ARN of the IAM policy from step 2
> # Replace `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_SERVICE_ACCOUNT>` and `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAMESPACE>` with the name and namespace of the service account
> # Replace `<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE>` with the IAM role to be used by the EKS pods where the Agent is running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$ eksctl create iamserviceaccount \
  --cluster <YOUR_EKS_CLUSTER> \
  --name <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_SERVICE_ACCOUNT> \
  --namespace <YOUR_IAM_AUTH_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAMESPACE> \
  --role-name arn:aws:iam::<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_AGENT>:role/<YOUR_AGENT_EKS_ROLE> \
  --override-existing-serviceaccounts \
  --approve
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Update your Postgres instance config with an `aws` block as shown below:
 - Specify the `region` of the RDS instance
 - Set `managed_authentication.enabled` to `true`
 - Specify the role ARN, replacing `<YOUR_AWS_ACCOUNT_FOR_DB>` with the AWS account ID where the RDS instance is located, and `<YOUR_IAM_AUTH_DB_ROLE>` with the name of the IAM role created in step 1

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
